We have probably the second biggest collection of Thomas Mann manuscripts.
Really?
The big one is at Zurich, of course.
Mann gave these to you?
Mann gave a collection of about, I forget the number, it was around 30.
M-A-N-N, isn't it?
We've got autograph manuscripts to Yale, and then we've added to this, we've got the papers that Helen Lowe Porter has translated, and we have the papers of Agnes Meyer, of Eugene Meyer, and the Washington Post fame, who has wrote many, many letters, large correspondence with Thomas Mann, which is very interesting.
She was his kind of political advisor in this country.
There's a collection that today you might not get.
This kind of reflects back, I mean, if this collection were to be given at this point, it would probably go to Germany because of the changes in politics.
Of course, yeah.
And he was in this country, and he had these papers, and there was a person named Joseph Angel, a graduate student here, who organized this gift and encouraged it.
Joseph Angel?
Joseph W. Angel.
He coordinated the mind gear.
Was he a Yale alumnus?
Oh, he certainly was a graduate school.
He was a student in comparative literature at the time.
All that happened to Nabokov stuff.
Probably Cornell or Harvard.
He would have been in that same kind of category, wouldn't he?
I seem to think Harvard, but I don't know why.
You'd think.
I would have asked why you started.
Uh-uh.
So we have manuscripts of two of the Joseph novels in German, and we have the most famous manuscript.
It's about a hundred pages that Thomas Mann threw out of the Magic Mountains.
And the total manuscript of the Magic Mountain was destroyed during the bombing of Munich at the end of the Second World War.
But he had revised it so much, which is unusual for him, because he was a very clean writer.
He had in his head what he was going to put on the page, you know.
And here are these hundred pages that never made it into the Söderberg.
Do you think that they would get into a critical edition?
There has been a critical edition of these hundred pages, and it was put out by these
Thomas Manchin even in the journal.
Is there a context?
I mean, is it apparent where it belongs, I wonder?
Yeah.
Yeah, you can.
But part of it is the French section.
That's fascinating.
Yeah.
Would you like to see it?
Yeah, I would.
His hand is very, very difficult.
What do we call this?
This is a fragment.
Yeah, rejected pages from him.
Who rejected them?
Yeah, while he was writing the book and revising.
And as I say, it's very unusual, because most of the things you look at... Well, even there are some struck out lines here, too.
So the pages must have become too messy, or he copied them over.
That looks to me like it would be a scholar's... Is that his ex there?
I would assume so, yeah.
Big, bold, cross-out X, right?
Got annoyed, probably.
Yeah.
And he numbered the leg.
That looks like an annotator.
It's certainly a European hand.
I don't know.
Look at that.
It's a European .
Do you have much scholarly interest in looking at this?
You must have people who want it.
Yeah.
Well, this was a long time in the making.
This is called the Yale Zauberbeg, right?
Is that how we pronounce it?
Zauberbeg.
That's not bad.
I'm so interested in the correspondence with Agnes Meyer, which is going to be published soon, with the Fischer-Fell-Lach-and-Charmes.
I remember one day I was here, and I had a visit from Lev Coppola, and he looked at all these things.
Fascinating.
the notes for Thomas Mann's famous essay on Gertrude and Tolstoy.
So, yeah, these are certainly interesting.
Okay, that's good.
That's great.
Is there a chance you can just kind of briefly show me some of the things upstairs without having to describe them?
I know it's outside of your field of... Yeah, I kind of like it, yeah.
That was great.
Thank you.
A collection in a university library, if it's going to really reach its potential, is like a three-legged stool.
You need somebody on the faculty who is informed and interested in this field, so the collection
if it exists, will actually be used.
You need somebody on the library staff who is informed and enthusiastic so the collection will continue to grow.
And then you need either a well-to-do alumnus or friend of the library or an endowed fund
Because it's almost never that the library can afford to subsidize from its operating budget the growth of a special collection.
None of those collections in Feinecke get any money from the university budget.
It's all either endowed funds or
gifts of the library associates, which is the friends of the library group.
That is amazing, isn't it?
I don't know how many people realize that, that it really is.
Well, not all the faculty do, because every once in a while you get sour comments from faculty members about the office.
library wasting all this money on those old books.
Think of the miles of microfilm or now computer disks that we could buy with that money, but they're using only funds that were left for that specific purpose.
So, um, I don't know that I have a copy, but, um,
If you could get a copy, and it was reprinted sometime in the 1920s, and this is when the proposal to Bill Sterling Library, I think, had just been adopted, Chauncey B. Tinker,
who was at that time an English professor.
I was told to ask you about him at some point, but you might have some recollection.
Well, he spoke to the alumni at reunion time that year, and he spoke to them about the needs of a library in a university and the fact that such a library needed support not only from the university budget,
but from alumni and friends and so on.
And essentially, it was that talk that led Lefty Lewis and a couple of other people to form the Library Associates, which is the Friends of the Library group.
And it was a result of that, that the library's
great rare book collections really were formed.
So there really wasn't a collection, a great prior to that?
No, but if you consider
Down at least till probably the last quarter of the nineteenth century, a college library existed mainly for the use of the faculty, not the students.
The students were taught by textbook and lecturers.
And then there were, of course, certain basic books in the college library, but much of what was there was for the faculty.
In terms of research materials?
Yes, and in terms of undergraduate use.
Now, shortly after the turn of the century, it may have been, I don't know enough about the history of education, but then you got to the point where the reserve bookroom entered the picture, and students were assigned readings for a lot of things besides their textbook, and the library had to have multiple copies of those things.
but essentially the real library collections were for the use of faculty and graduate students.
And this was true certainly right through the 30s.
By shortly after World War II, undergraduates were doing library research on a level that would in our day have been considered only appropriate for a Ph.D.
candidate.
Consequently, the libraries had to build their collections.
But if you look at... Can I interrupt?
Yes.
Do you think that all research collections are generally, are really built with the curriculum in mind?
No.
But sometimes the existence of a collection
can add to the curriculum.
No, because essentially the research collections are not built either by the faculty or in most cases by the library staff.
If you look at the great collections in the Beinecke Library, and even many that aren't in the Beinecke Library but are in the main library,
Most of these, I would say, were formed by private collectors, people with means, and devotion, who then, having formed the collection, wanted it to reach its fullest use, and so gave it to a library or sold it to a library.
This is one of the focuses of my book.
My book is really going to focus on the private, on what
But the preservation of knowledge owes to the private collector.
And I just see this everywhere I go, the New York Public Library.
It's just a collection of private book collections.
Yes, and I think this is mainly true everywhere because, and particularly these days, with operating costs what they are, no library could afford to start in and build a collection like any of those that are in the Beinecke County.
And if you look at the Western collection in the Beinecke, this, in some ways, is a very fine example of what happens.
The Western collection, as a separate entity, came into being in the 1940s when William Robertson Cove— How do we spell his name?
C-O-E?
C-O-E.
Gave his Western Americana collection to Yale.
I won't go into the circumstances surrounding it, but... Is it an interesting story?
Yeah, to some extent.
Is it something I could find in...?
There is a whole issue of the Yale Library Gazette in the late 1940s devoted to that collection, and the description was written by Ed Eberstadt, who had been Coe's agent.
Because Coe, in some ways, was the ideal donor, he not only gave this collection, and it was perhaps an unusual collection in that it included not only printed books, but manuscripts and maps and some original paintings, he gave the collection
He paid all the expenses of cataloging it.
He paid for whatever repairs and slip cases and so on were necessary.
And he gave an endowment, a substantial part of which went to establish a chair in the field of American Studies.
And then the remaining income from the endowment went
to pay for a librarian and for additions to the collection.
So that meant that we not only received this great collection, but that since he had insisted that it be separately housed, that gave us a chance to go through the library stacks
and bring out of them everything that was there, that was rare, that needed special care, and that could be added to the collection.
And it's amazing the number and types of things that we found.
For example, well, I mentioned the fact that in the 19th century, the average college professor at Yale had a better library in his own personal house
than the college had in his own field.
And then what happened when the professor died, like Benjamin Silliman, for instance.
I suspect that his widow took one look at the deceased's study and said, good Lord, what am I going to do with this?
send it down to the college library.
And Silliman had not only, of course, all the standard works on geology.
How do we spell his name?
S-I-L-L-I-M-A-N.
Actually, there were two of them, Benjamin Sr.
and Benjamin Jr., and they were the leading American geologists for quite a few years.
These were Yale men, right?
Mm-hmm.
But Silliman
had a tremendous collection of pamphlets, including all kinds of, for instance, prospectuses and reports on gold mines, silver mines, and everything else in the American West.
And that kind of a formal literature, you know, disappears.
And there were a number of other
collections like that that had been formed by faculty members that we drew on.
Then, in the 1880s, a Yale man named Henry Robb Wagner graduated from Yale, and he went to work for the Guggenheims.
who sent him as a mining expert to various parts of the world and everywhere he went, he formed a new book collection.
When it was in the British Isles, he formed a collection of Irish economic tracts.
In Mexico, he not only acquired, well,
For instance, there was a group of about 5,000 Mexican broadsides going all the way from the 17th century to the end of the 19th, and an equal number of pamphlets from the same period.
And he was also interested in early Mexican printing and collected some fine examples of that.
But he got interested in
the early history of the Spanish Southwest.
Now, would you say he was a collector or was he a scholar, a buyer?
He was both.
He was also a bibliographer.
Because, you see, he collected the early history of the Spanish Southwest and formed and compiled a bibliography on his collection.
But he was also typical of many collectors in that, having done this and having done the bibliography,
He then decided it was time to move on to another field, and he disposed of that collection.
That one, I think, is somewhere in California.
I'm not sure where.
But then he moved his attention further north and compiled a collection and did a bibliography on the plains and the Rockies.
The Trans-Mississippi West down to...
the 1860s.
Now, this is still Sullivan we're talking about.
No, no, this is Henry Ralph Wagner.
And his bibliographies are still standard, although The Planes and the Rockies is now, and it's about a fourth edition.
He only edited the first one.
He did a bibliography of early California printing.
He did a very fine work on the cartography of the Northwest Coast.
And he inspired other bibliographers and collectors.
Now, Yale did have his Texas and Middle West collection, which he acquired through a curious
combination of gift and purchase and so on.
But Tom Streeter, whom you've utterly heard of.
I bought Bradley Martin Streeter catalog at the Martin Sale.
I have Bradley Martin Streeter catalog.
Tom, at some point, I think in the 20s, had invested in an oil well in Texas, which produced neither oil nor royalties.
And he went down to Texas to investigate.
And he got very much interested in Texas history.
He was also a...
with Henry Wagner.
And in the course of a conversation, Henry said, you know, he said, my Spanish Southwest bibliography only goes down to 1795.
He said, it would be very interesting to do a bibliography of Texas from 1795 to statehood in 1845.
And Tom thought that would be an interesting project, but his idea of the way to do a bibliography was not necessarily to go around from library to library.
It was to collect all the books to be included.
And he spent from sometime in the 20s to sometime in the 1950s collecting the books.
At the end of that time, he produced a five-volume bibliography of Texas.
Did you know him?
Mm-hmm.
Because, um, it was, uh, he made no secret of the fact that once the bibliography was finished, he would be willing to part with the Texas collaboration.
And what did you think about that?
Well, it wasn't a question of what I thought.
Jim Babb, who was a university librarian in the 40s and 50s and into the early 60s, was a book collector himself.
In fact, he moved from being a stockbroker to being an associate librarian and a librarian of Yale.
And he not only collected books, he collected collectors.
And so he was very much aware of the existence of this collection and the fact that it would be available.
Now when you say available, available to Yale or available?
Available for purchase.
By somebody else.
Not necessarily by Yale.
No.
So there would be a sense of competition involved here.
Yes, except that— Anxiety at least.
He managed to raise enough money among alumni and friends of the library to buy that Texas collection.
Um, and I went, uh, as each section of the bibliography was, uh, was published, then we were allowed to have the materials that were included in that section.
Except I don't think there was too much competition.
Texas would have been a logical other competitor, but apparently there was a feeling there that Street had no right to sell that collection.
He had to give it to them.
I wasn't, of course, at this time.
I was still a very— This was the 1950s.
So this is before Harry Granson got Texas going on a big thing.
Well, and even there, he wasn't particularly interested in historical collections.
He was mainly interested in literary ones.
But at this point, you see, I was a very new, very young curator, and I didn't get involved in any of these high-level things.
But I did get to go down to Morristown each time to pick up the books.
Actually, I had been there once before.
Just on a visit, I was invited to come down and see Tom's collection.
After we took the Texas collection, Ruth Streeter very optimistically said,
once we get the Texas things out of the house, maybe we'll have a little breathing room here.
Of course, what happened was not only the whole Texas collection, since so much of it was broad-sized and pamphlets, left very few empty shelves, and then Tom promptly spent all the money on other books, because he went back to what had always been his
main collecting interest, that Americana beginnings.
But one reason that he was willing to sell to us, and really it was a question of his deciding who he was going to allow to buy this, but because it was Wagner that had started him on this project, and because Wagner's Texas collection was already at Yale,
Then he was much more inclined.
He liked the idea of his collection joining wagons.
And between then what was already at Yale and Strier's collection, we then ended up with
with the greatest pre-state of Texas collection in terms of printed material.
I think even including whatever's in the state of Texas?
Mm-hmm.
Well, if you added everything in Texas together— Part of it in one collection?
No.
At that time, in the 1950s, this was true.
We were the prime collection.
How did it really decide—I mean,
Certainly the street of sale of the 60s is one of the great sales.
How did you decide what should be sold at auction and what should go privately to institutions?
Did you talk about that?
No, he spent—he had always intended that collection to be sold at auction.
The Texas collection?
No, no.
The Texas collection, I mean— No, the Texas collection.
Once he'd finished the bibliography, then he was not interested in that anymore.
Now, it was specified that where he had more than one copy of an item
We could pick whatever copy we wanted.
This is from the regular collection?
Yeah, from the Texas collection.
We could pick whichever copy we wanted, but then he would keep any other copy, so that even after we had bought his Texas collection, he still had copies.
Some of the keys went to him, yeah.
he had always intended that that americana beginnings collection should be sold at options why do you think well i think for two reasons partly because he wanted that sale to be for the 20th century what the brimley sale was for the 19th and in a way you see
It irked him no end that he wouldn't be there at the sale to see what things brought.
On the other hand, if he had parted with that collection while he was still alive, it would have killed him.
Did he ever talk about this?
Oh, yes.
And also, something he didn't talk about,
His family, and this, I think, should not be rooted abroad, his family was never really very sympathetic with his book collecting.
Not many families there.
I mean, Bradley Martin's library was sold within a year of staff.
But when, for instance, he sold the Texas collection for 300-something thousand dollars,
That was proved to his family that he hadn't been an idiot putting his money in these scraps of paper.
And then, of course, the sale of his collection brought in over three million.
Well, of course, there were a number of reasons for that.
The sale came at just the right time in terms of the financial status of the country.
And there was a tremendous amount of goodwill toward him among collectors and in the trade.
Everybody has good things to say about sales.
Everybody wanted that sale to go well.
And also, you know, he built in a certain amount of competition in his wealth.
because in his will, he had a list of libraries.
Actually, there were three lists, and every library on the first list got a bequest of, I've forgotten what it was, five or ten thousand dollars, something like that.
Then, if the sale brought in a certain amount of money,
then there was a second list of about half as many libraries.
And if it brought in so much, then each of them got an additional amount.
And then if it brought in a certain amount more, there was a third list of only about five libraries that got still more.
And he very sweetly said in his will that
that while he did not in any way dictate how his bequests should be spent, he knew that many of these libraries would want to have at least one book from his collection.
And, in fact, most of the libraries on the A and B lists did
spend that money at the sale.
But that really wasn't necessary.
There was a great competition.
But he gave them money to spend his books at the sale.
Well, he gave them money to do whatever they wanted with, but a lot of them spent it at the sale.
But you'd think that maybe he would have said to the American antiquarian society, you know, Clarence Brigham, I think there's something here that you might like.
No, you see, he wanted this sale.
It was his monument.
He was a really charming person, and certainly one of the most knowledgeable book collectors that I ever met.
He really knew why everything in his collection was important, and he had read them all.
So...
He was, as you know, so many book collectors started collecting somebody else's list, the Zamorano 80, the 100 books important in science, and so on.
But he didn't.
He established his own standards.
Well, to go back to the Western collection, Yale,
At about the same time that we were cataloging the Coke collection, a classmate of Tim Babb's, Winlock Miller Jr., died.
Now, he came from a Seattle family.
His grandfather had been one of the pioneers of the Washington Territory, had been Secretary of State there, had been one of the leading businessmen and so on in the state, and also a political figure.
Bill Winlock collected Pacific Northwest America
but he died untimely just in his early 40s.
And in spite of the fact that his father was a regent of the University of Washington, Winlock had willed it to Yale,
And so we were able to add that collection to the Western collection.
Did it go to Yale?
Winlock, yes.
But I'm sure Washington was pretty upset about that.
Well, yes, except that we...
microfilm for them, all of the manuscripts that had a bearing on Washington Territory history.
So now there are three collections, one from an alumnus, four collections really, two from alumni, one purchase, one gift from a non-alumnus, then
Also, at just about the same time that the Miller Collection came, there was another Yale alumnus, Walter McClintock, and he was about ten years later than Henry Wagner.
But the year he graduated from Yale, he had a job
that summer as photographer to a government commission to the Blackfeet.
And apparently he fell in love with the Blackfeet and took to spending all his summers with them and eventually was adopted into the tribe.
And he was allowed to photograph their Sundance ceremony at a time when it was still a very meaningful part of the religious life of the tribe.
And he had this tremendous collection of photographs of black people, and also all his lecture notes.
And he used to come to Yale, back to Yale periodically.
Actually, he really...
would have preferred to be down at Peabody Museum with the anthropologist, but he was an amateur.
He didn't even have a Ph.D.
But the library took him in, and so when he died, he left his whole collection of photographs and negatives and lecture notes.
He even collaborated on a Blackfoot Indian opera.
And he was a bachelor, and he left a fund subject to a life interest of his two surviving sisters to be used to buy materials relating to North American Indians.
Notice the man's name once again?
Walter McClintock, with a C-K.
C-K-L-I-N-T-O-C-K.
No, M-C-C, C-L-I-N, M-C-C-L-I-N-P-O-C-K.
And then the last of the collections to come to the Western collection was Fritz Beinecke's.
Now he was E.J.
Beinecke's brother.
he started collecting fairly late in life.
And at first, I mean, he was interested in the American West, and at first he was just collecting currently published books and things like that.
But then when he got to a point where he could really afford to collect on a major scale, he did.
He came into the picture just as Cole was leaving, so that the holiday sale in 1954 was the last major sale at which ever—at which Cole bought anything and the first at which Fritz Finnecke bought.
And from then on, he—and he was primarily interested.
in California and the Spanish Southwest, which is where we were weakest.
But he was also interested in essentially anything American Western, and he was the kind of person who was very cooperative and, well, when the Eberstads would get out a catalog, they would send page proofs to me and to Fritz Feinecke.
And I would go over the catalog, and I would write for us a letter, and I would pick out six really great titles.
and say, these we must have, and devote perhaps half a page to each of them.
And then I would pick out another dozen or fifteen and say, these also, and devote a paragraph to each of them.
And then I would find, and then besides there are all these things,
How much time do we have?
Well, we've got at least 20 minutes.
Then he would phone me.
And I know one time he had already talked to Lynn Everstand.
And so he phoned me and said, Trilby, I've just been talking to Sven Gali.
Boy, has he got you hit my diet.
He said, I've gone over your list.
He said, no.
The top six and the next 12, yes, we've got to have those.
And then these and these and these and these, they don't really excite me very much, but if you say Yale needs them all right, then these things,
They leave me cold.
If you want them, you buy them.
And at the height of his collecting, he was giving Yale up to sometimes $200,000 worth of books and manuscripts in a year.
This is Frederick W. Beineken.
Yes.
Well, in books and manuscripts.
But again, I wouldn't want that figure publicized.
But essentially... Well, he started collecting in, I would say, the middle 1950s.
And he died soon...
after the first Streeter sales.
The first of the seven Streeter sales was the last there of 67.
Yeah, 67.
And in those 12 years, he put together one of the major Western Americanicals.
What was his motivation?
Well, he loved, he was fascinated by the West,
and he loved book collecting, and he was very devoted to Yale.
Those are the three banks that you need, I think.
Yeah.
And of that— Did you know him?
Oh, yeah.
Tell me a little bit about him.
Well, of the three senior generation Beineckeys, Edwin,
and Frederick and Walter.
Walter I never met.
He died really before I came into the picture.
And he was not a book collector.
Edwin... Are you supportive of what the brothers did, though?
Well, his family did later.
And...
E.J.
started collecting Robert Louis Stevenson and put together the great Stevenson collection.
And then when he was in his 60s, I think, he was quite ill.
And he'd already collected everything that Stevenson you could get.
And he stopped collecting and was kind of grumpy.
Then he had a couple of major operations and came out of them feeling 20 years younger and immediately started a whole new collecting career.
collecting caxtons and incunabula and medieval illuminated manuscripts.
And he was the one that really pushed the family into building the building.
Frederick was his younger brother, and he was Western Americana.
Do you think they saw this as a monument to themselves?
Well, to some extent, and you saw that inscription on the door behind the desk.
But actually, of the three senior brothers, although all three of them matriculated at Yale, F.W.
was the only one that ever graduated.
but they were all very loyal.
And of course, in the next generation, the only one who was a real book collector was Walter Junior, the son of the man who was not a book collector.
And he collected J.M.
Barrie,
And I got to know him when we were both collecting John Buchan.
He's my age.
But the family really were devoted to Yale.
And they were passionate book collectors.
And young Walter said to me one time,
He only worked for Sperry and Hutchinson for a few years.
But Walter said to me one time, if you come to S&H on business, you better have an appointment, and when you get here, you better be first in business.
If you come to talk about books,
You can come any time and stay forever.
And both E.J.
and F.W.
kept large parts of their collections right in their offices.
And in fact, after Fritz Beinecke died, and in his will, all his books came to Yale, to the collection.
But his son, who was then president of the company, also a member of the Yale Corporation, said, I want you to leave
He said, we haven't let anyone else use my father's office yet.
He said, and I want you to leave enough books on the shelf.
He said, they don't have to be the rare books, but I want enough books on the shelf for that office to look the way it did when he was there.
They were a marvelous family.
Every university should have a Bynick family.
Yes.
Unfortunately, you know, all those people are gone now.
But there was a whole series of these people that were inspired.
A lot of them had been Tinker's students when they were undergraduates at Yale, and he was a book collector.
In fact, after he retired, he became the first keeper of rare books at Yale.
I think he did.
And he inspired a tremendous number of book collectors.
Tell me a little bit about Tinker, don't you think?
Well, I didn't really know him because I'm not a... But you say he inspired.
I think that his... He was a book collector.
His legacy, to some extent, might be that the fact that he affected... Yes, absolutely.
Among the people who followed and the things that came from him.
Of course, he collected himself and his folks came to Yale, but essentially, no.
He infected a number of the really important people, like Lesley Lewis, for instance, and Jim Babb,
the Beinecke's, and I don't know how many others.
I see Jackson did some of his, Jackson did some of his, don't you think?
Yes, but, in a way, Bill Jackson was one of the best friends the Yale Libraries ever had.
quite unintentional, because at Yale, and under, and this is a result of the presence there of Donald Wing and Jim Bass.
Well, for instance, when I was appointed librarian of the Koch collection, Jim Bass called me into his office.
He said, all right, I'm giving you the collection.
But how well you do with this will depend entirely on your relations with the booksellers.
Now get the hell out of here and go meet them.
Who said this to you?
Yeah.
Who said this again?
Jim Bass.
And for instance, shortly after...
I was appointed Dick Wormser, who was at that time the kind of dean of the antiquarian booksellers.
He'd been one of the founding members of ABAA.
Dick Wormser invited me to speak to the old book tables in New York.
And I was tremendously impressed meeting all these booksellers.
And when I came back, Jim said, well, did you enjoy it?
And so on.
And I said, yeah, in fact, this was so great.
And why couldn't we invite them here sometime?
And Jim said, why didn't I think of that?
And so he invited the book table up to New Haven and had cocktails for them and a rare book for them and dinner for them here.
And afterwards, Dick Wormser said, you know, he said, over the years, we've had a lot of librarians as our guests.
This is the first time that any library ever invited us.
And the same way, the first time that ILAB met in this country, they met in New York, and Jim invited all of them to New Haven for a day.
And there were special exhibits in Sterling Library.
This was before Beinecke was built.
Tours of the library, lunch at the Lawn Club, cocktails in the medical historical library, and then the Lieberts invited them all to a buffet supper at their house.
And now I think this probably cost the library three or four thousand dollars, which I'm sure...
Jim managed to get from some of the associates.
But what it did in terms of goodwill, you see, and so Yale always cultivated the booksellers.
Bill Jackson alienated his standard reaction.
Whenever an antiquarian bookseller offered Bill Jackson a book, he immediately made a counteroffer of 50%.
You know, you don't get very far that way.
I'm just going to change tapes here.